# MX25R6435F

Arduino library to support the Quad-SPI NOR Flash memory MX25R6435F.

## API

* **MX25R6435FClass**: class constructor  

* **begin**: initialize memory interface  

* **end**: de-initialize memory interface  

* **write(uint8_t, uint32_t)**: write a single byte to the memory  
_Params_ byte to be written  
_Params_ memory address where write the byte  
_Return_ number of byte written. 0 indicates a failure.  

*  **write(uint8_t\*, uint32_t, uint32_t)**: write an amount of data to the memory  
_Params_ pointer to byte(s) to be written  
_Params_ memory starting address  
_Params_ number of bytes to write  
_Return_ number of byte written. 0 indicates a failure.  

* **read(uint32_t)**: read a single byte  
_Params_ memory address  
_Return_ the byte read  

* **read(uint8_t\*, uint32_t, uint32_t)**: read an amount of data from the memory  
_Params_ pointer to byte(s) to be read  
_Params_ memory starting address  
_Params_ number of bytes to read  

* **mapped**: configure the memory in mapped mode  
_Return_ pointer to memory  

* **erase(uint32_t)**: erase a block of the memory  
_Params_ the address of the block to erase  
_Return_ memory status  

* **eraseChip**: erase the entire memory  
_Return_ memory status  

* **eraseSector(uint32_t)**: erase a sector of the memory. This function is non
blocking meaning that sector erase operation is started but not completed when
the function returns. Application has to call status()
to know when the device is available again (i.e. erase operation completed).  
_Params_ the address of the sector to erase  
_Return_ memory status  

* **suspendErase**: suspend an ongoing eraseSector command  
_Return_ memory status  

* **resumeErase**: resume a paused eraseSector command  
_Return_ memory status  

* **sleep**: enter the memory in deep power down mode  
_Return_ memory status  

* **wakeup**: leave the memory from deep power down mode  
_Return_ memory status  

* **status**: read the current memory status  
_Return_ memory status  

* **info(memory_info_t)**: read the memory configuration  
_Params_ the parameter to read. Must be a memory_info_t value (MEMORY_SIZE,
  MEMORY_SECTOR_SIZE, MEMORY_SECTOR_NUMBER, MEMORY_PAGE_SIZE or MEMORY_PAGE_NUMBER)  
_Return_ the parameter value  

* **length**: read the total size of the memory  
_Return_ memory size  

> [!NOTE]
> This library uses the Q-SPI interface of the STM32 boards.

## Examples

* demo: shows how to use the memory driver  
* eraseChip: erase all the memory  
* memoryMappedMode: show how to use the memory mapped mode  

## Source

You can find the source files at  
https://github.com/stm32duino/MX25R6435F

## Documentation

The MX25R6435F datasheet is available at  
http://www.mxic.com.tw/Lists/Datasheet/Attachments/6270/MX25R6435F,%20Wide%20Range,%2064Mb,%20v1.4.pdf
